1 What is deep learning, and how is it connected to artificial intelligence?
ans - 
Deep learning is a type of machine learning that uses artificial nural network to learn from data.
Deep learning is also used for classify and distinguish of image data , video and graphics also.
Whenever technology want's automation Deep learning concept comes. 
As we want artificial intelligence that automate the decision making that's why deep learning connected with it.

2 What is a neural network, and what are the different types of neural networks?
ans-
Nural network is machine learning model's that contain group of nural in it  layer by layer .
Different types of nural network are
	i- feed forward nural network
	ii - convolutional nural network
	iii - recurent nural network

3 What is the mathematical structure of a neural network ?
ans - 
A nural network is consist of group of nural layer.
a single nuran contain two parts one is summation part (dot product of input vector and waight ) and another part is 
activation part(gives non-linearity to the output )

4 What is an activation function, and why is it essential in neural ?
ans 
activation function gives non-linerarity to the output(summation part ) mean gives curvature using  a specific funtion 
that can be relu, lekyrelu , tanh  , sigmoid etc

5 Could you list some common activation functions used in neural networks ?
some activation function's are relu, lekyrelu , tanh , sigmoid etc.

6 What is a multilayer neural network ?
ans-
If a nural network contain two or more that two layer of nural then it call multilayer nural network .

7 What is a loss function, and why is it crucial for neural network training ?
ans -
Loss fuction gives differ between actual label and predicted label to the nural network .
Loss fuction playes main role in nural network . Because by loss function a nural network capable to train .
Without loss funtion a nural network cannot be train .

8 What are some common types of loss functions?
ans-
	i - mean squared error (for regression )
	ii - binary crossentropy (for binary classification )
	iii - categorical crossentropy (for multi class classification )
9 How does a neural network learn?
ans -At forword propagation it only calculate output but in back propogation optimizer funtion update the value's of
weight's and bias of nural network .

10 What is an optimizer in neural networks, and why is it necessary ?
ans- 
Optimizer optimize (minimize ) the loss function (difference between actual label and predicted label)and changes the value's of 
weight's and bias of a nural network and bring these values to a optinum point .
It is neccessry because at the initial  time the weight and bias are randomly initialized .And optimizer can set these values
at a optimum point at trainig time so that at prediction  the model predict right.

11 Could you briefly describe some common optimizers ?
ans 
	 i - adam
	ii - rmsprop
	iii - stochatic gradient descent
12 Can you explain forward and backward propagation in a neural network?
In forwarn propagation at each layer the input vector is multiplyed with bias and passing through activation funtion .
But at backword propagation  loss is calculated at the output layer and by optimizer all the weight's and bias are 
update (to set the optimum value ) there value .
One forward propagation and one backword propagation is one epoch.

13 What is weight initialization, and how does it impact training ?
ans 
At begning of training what value contain the weight's and bias are called weight initializatioin .
if we set random weight's then for riching optimum value of these weight's more time may taken.

14 What is the vanishing gradient problem in deep learning ?
ans
At the time of backword propagation if the value of gradient tends to zero then no value updation occuration.

15What is the exploding gradient problem?
ans -
At the time of backword propagation if the value of gradient is very large  then significantly large value differ in 
update value of ans weigh .